<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8" />
        <title>Hosanna Shout</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <section class="chapter" title="Hosanna Shout" epub:type="chapter">
            <h1>Presented by President Russell M. Nelson <br />Hosanna Shout</h1>
<p>Now, my dear brothers and sisters, as we commemorate Joseph Smith’s First Vision of the Father and the Son, we felt that it would be appropriate to rejoice together by participating in the Hosanna Shout.</p>
<p>This sacred shout was first given in this dispensation at the dedication of the Kirtland Temple on March 27, 1836. It is now given at the dedication of each temple. It is a sacred tribute to the Father and the Son, symbolizing the reaction of the multitude when the Savior made His triumphal entry into Jerusalem. It also reaffirms what young Joseph experienced that day in the Sacred Grove﻿﻿—namely, that the Father and the Son are two glorified Beings, whom we worship and praise.</p>
<p>I will now demonstrate how the Hosanna Shout is given. As I do, I invite our colleagues in the media to treat this very sacred observance with dignity and respect.</p>
<p>Each one participating takes a clean white handkerchief, holding it by one corner, and waves it while saying in unison, “Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna to God and the Lamb,” repeated three times, followed by “Amen, Amen, and Amen.” If you do not have a white handkerchief, you may simply wave your hand.</p>
<p>Brothers and sisters, I now invite you to stand and participate in the Hosanna Shout, following which the “Hosanna Anthem” and “The Spirit of God”[^1] will be sung.</p>
<p>Upon a signal from the conductor, please join in singing “The Spirit of God.”</p>
<p>Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna to God and the Lamb.</p>
<p>Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna to God and the Lamb.</p>
<p>Hosanna, Hosanna, Hosanna to God and the Lamb.</p>
<p>Amen, Amen, and Amen.</p>
        </section>
    </body>
</html>