<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8" />
        <title>Joy and Spiritual Survival</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <section class="chapter" title="Joy and Spiritual Survival" epub:type="chapter">
            <h1>President Russell M. Nelson <br />Joy and Spiritual Survival</h1>
<p>My dear brothers and sisters, today I would like to discuss a principle that is key to our spiritual survival. It is a principle that will only become more important as the tragedies and travesties around us increase.</p>
<p>These are the latter days, so none of us should be surprised when we see prophecy fulfilled. A host of prophets, including Isaiah, Paul, Nephi, and Mormon, foresaw that perilous times would come,<sup id="fnref:1"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:1" rel="footnote">1</a></sup> that in our day the whole world would be in commotion,<sup id="fnref:2"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:2" rel="footnote">2</a></sup> that men would “be lovers of their own selves, … without natural affection, … lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God,”<sup id="fnref:3"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:3" rel="footnote">3</a></sup> and that many would become servants of Satan who uphold the adversary’s work.<sup id="fnref:4"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:4" rel="footnote">4</a></sup> Indeed, you and I “wrestle … against the rulers of the darkness of this world, [and] against spiritual wickedness in high places.”<sup id="fnref:5"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:5" rel="footnote">5</a></sup></p>
<p>As conflicts between nations escalate, as cowardly terrorists prey on the innocent, and as corruption in everything from business to government becomes increasingly commonplace, what can help us? What can help each of us with our personal struggles and with the rigorous challenge of living in these latter days?</p>
<p>The prophet Lehi taught a principle for spiritual survival. First, consider his circumstances: He had been persecuted for preaching truth in Jerusalem and had been commanded by the Lord to leave his possessions and flee with his family into the wilderness. He had lived in a tent and survived on what food could be found on the way to an unknown destination, and he had watched two of his sons, Laman and Lemuel, rebel against the teachings of the Lord and attack their brothers Nephi and Sam.</p>
<p>Clearly, Lehi knew opposition, anxiety, heartache, pain, disappointment, and sorrow. Yet he declared boldly and without reservation a principle as revealed by the Lord: “Men are, that they might have joy.”<sup id="fnref:6"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:6" rel="footnote">6</a></sup> Imagine! Of all the words he could have used to describe the nature and purpose of our lives here in mortality, he chose the word joy!</p>
<p>Life is filled with detours and dead ends, trials and challenges of every kind. Each of us has likely had times when distress, anguish, and despair almost consumed us. Yet we are here to have joy?</p>
<p>Yes! The answer is a resounding yes! But how is that possible? And what must we do to claim the joy that Heavenly Father has in store for us?</p>
<p>Eliza R. Snow, second General President of the Relief Society, offered a riveting answer. Because of Missouri’s infamous extermination order, issued at the onset of the grueling winter of 1838,<sup id="fnref:7"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:7" rel="footnote">7</a></sup> she and other Saints were forced to flee the state that very winter. One evening, Eliza’s family spent the night in a small log cabin used by refugee Saints. Much of the chinking between the logs had been extracted and burned for firewood by those who preceded them, so there were holes between the logs large enough for a cat to crawl through. It was bitter cold, and their food was frozen solid.</p>
<p>That night some 80 people huddled inside that small cabin, only 20 feet square (6.1 meters square). Most sat or stood all night trying to keep warm. Outside, a group of men spent the night gathered around a roaring fire, with some singing hymns and others roasting frozen potatoes. Eliza recorded: “Not a complaint was heard—all were cheerful, and judging from appearances, strangers would have taken us to be pleasure excursionists rather than a band of gubernatorial exiles.”</p>
<p>Eliza’s report of that exhausting, bone-chilling evening was strikingly optimistic. She declared: “That was a very merry night. None but saints can be happy under every circumstance.”<sup id="fnref:8"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:8" rel="footnote">8</a></sup></p>
<p>That’s it! Saints can be happy under every circumstance. We can feel joy even while having a bad day, a bad week, or even a bad year!</p>
<p>My dear brothers and sisters, the joy we feel has little to do with the circumstances of our lives and everything to do with the focus of our lives.</p>
<p>When the focus of our lives is on God’s plan of salvation, which President Thomas S. Monson just taught us, and Jesus Christ and His gospel, we can feel joy regardless of what is happening—or not happening—in our lives. Joy comes from and because of Him. He is the source of all joy. We feel it at Christmastime when we sing, “Joy to the world, the Lord is come.”<sup id="fnref:9"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:9" rel="footnote">9</a></sup> And we can feel it all year round. For Latter-day Saints, Jesus Christ is joy!</p>
<p>That is why our missionaries leave their homes to preach His gospel. Their goal is not to increase the number of Church members. Rather, our missionaries teach and baptize<sup id="fnref:10"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:10" rel="footnote">10</a></sup> to bring joy to the people of the world!<sup id="fnref:11"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:11" rel="footnote">11</a></sup></p>
<p>Just as the Savior offers peace that “passeth all understanding,”<sup id="fnref:12"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:12" rel="footnote">12</a></sup> He also offers an intensity, depth, and breadth of joy that defy human logic or mortal comprehension. For example, it doesn’t seem possible to feel joy when your child suffers with an incurable illness or when you lose your job or when your spouse betrays you. Yet that is precisely the joy the Savior offers. His joy is constant, assuring us that our “afflictions shall be but a small moment”<sup id="fnref:13"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:13" rel="footnote">13</a></sup> and be consecrated to our gain.<sup id="fnref:14"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:14" rel="footnote">14</a></sup></p>
<p>How, then, can we claim that joy? We can start by “looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith”<sup id="fnref:15"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:15" rel="footnote">15</a></sup> “in every thought.”<sup id="fnref:16"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:16" rel="footnote">16</a></sup> We can give thanks for Him in our prayers and by keeping covenants we’ve made with Him and our Heavenly Father. As our Savior becomes more and more real to us and as we plead for His joy to be given to us, our joy will increase.</p>
<p>Joy is powerful, and focusing on joy brings God’s power into our lives. As in all things, Jesus Christ is our ultimate exemplar, “who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross.”<sup id="fnref:17"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:17" rel="footnote">17</a></sup> Think of that! In order for Him to endure the most excruciating experience ever endured on earth, our Savior focused on joy!</p>
<p>And what was the joy that was set before Him? Surely it included the joy of cleansing, healing, and strengthening us; the joy of paying for the sins of all who would repent; the joy of making it possible for you and me to return home—clean and worthy—to live with our Heavenly Parents and families.</p>
<p>If we focus on the joy that will come to us, or to those we love, what can we endure that presently seems overwhelming, painful, scary, unfair, or simply impossible?</p>
<p>One father in a spiritually precarious situation focused on the joy of finally being clean and right with the Lord—the joy of being freed from guilt and shame—and the joy of having peace of mind. That focus gave him the courage to confess to his wife and bishop about his problem with pornography and his subsequent infidelity. He is now doing everything his bishop counsels him to do, striving with all his heart to regain the trust of his dear wife.</p>
<p>A young woman focused on the joy of staying sexually pure to help her endure the mocking of friends as she walked away from a popular and provocative, but spiritually dangerous, situation.</p>
<p>A man who frequently demeaned his wife and indulged in angry outbursts at his children focused on the joy of being worthy to have the Holy Ghost as his constant companion. That focus motivated him to put off the natural man,<sup id="fnref:18"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:18" rel="footnote">18</a></sup> to which he had too often succumbed, and make needed changes.</p>
<p>A dear colleague recently told me of his past two decades of heavy trials. He said, “I have learned to suffer with joy. My suffering was swallowed up in the joy of Christ.”<sup id="fnref:19"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:19" rel="footnote">19</a></sup></p>
<p>What will you and I be able to endure as we focus on the joy that is “set before” us?<sup id="fnref:20"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:20" rel="footnote">20</a></sup> What repenting will then be possible? What weakness will become a strength?<sup id="fnref:21"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:21" rel="footnote">21</a></sup> What chastening will become a blessing?<sup id="fnref:22"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:22" rel="footnote">22</a></sup> What disappointments, even tragedies, will turn to our good?<sup id="fnref:23"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:23" rel="footnote">23</a></sup> And what challenging service to the Lord will we be able to give?<sup id="fnref:24"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:24" rel="footnote">24</a></sup></p>
<p>As we diligently focus on the Savior and then follow His pattern of focusing on joy, we need to avoid those things that can interrupt our joy. Remember Korihor, the anti-Christ? Spewing falsehoods about the Savior, Korihor went from place to place until he was brought before a high priest who asked him: “Why do ye go about perverting the ways of the Lord? Why do ye teach this people that there shall be no Christ, to interrupt their rejoicings?”<sup id="fnref:25"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:25" rel="footnote">25</a></sup></p>
<p>Anything that opposes Christ or His doctrine will interrupt our joy. That includes the philosophies of men, so abundant online and in the blogosphere, which do exactly what Korihor did.<sup id="fnref:26"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:26" rel="footnote">26</a></sup></p>
<p>If we look to the world and follow its formulas for happiness,<sup id="fnref:27"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:27" rel="footnote">27</a></sup> we will never know joy. The unrighteous may experience any number of emotions and sensations, but they will never experience joy!<sup id="fnref:28"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:28" rel="footnote">28</a></sup> Joy is a gift for the faithful.<sup id="fnref:29"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:29" rel="footnote">29</a></sup> It is the gift that comes from intentionally trying to live a righteous life, as taught by Jesus Christ.<sup id="fnref:30"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:30" rel="footnote">30</a></sup></p>
<p>He taught us how to have joy. When we choose Heavenly Father to be our God<sup id="fnref:31"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:31" rel="footnote">31</a></sup> and when we can feel the Savior’s Atonement working in our lives, we will be filled with joy.<sup id="fnref:32"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:32" rel="footnote">32</a></sup> Every time we nurture our spouse and guide our children, every time we forgive someone or ask for forgiveness, we can feel joy.</p>
<p>Every day that you and I choose to live celestial laws, every day that we keep our covenants and help others to do the same, joy will be ours.</p>
<p>Heed these words of the Psalmist: “I have set the Lord always before me: because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. … In [His] presence is fulness of joy.”<sup id="fnref:33"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:33" rel="footnote">33</a></sup> As this principle is embedded in our hearts, each and every day can be a day of joy and gladness.<sup id="fnref:34"><a class="footnote-ref" href="#fn:34" rel="footnote">34</a></sup> I so testify in the sacred name of Jesus Christ, amen.</p>
<div class="footnote">
<hr />
<ol>
<li id="fn:1">
<p>See 2 Timothy 3:1–5.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:1" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 1 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:2">
<p>See Doctrine and Covenants 45:26; 88:91.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:2" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 2 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:3">
<p>2 Timothy 3:2–4.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:3" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 3 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:4">
<p>See Doctrine and Covenants 10:5.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:4" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 4 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:5">
<p>Ephesians 6:12.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:5" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 5 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:6">
<p>2 Nephi 2:25.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:6" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 6 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:7">
<p>Governor Lilburn W. Boggs of Missouri issued the order of Mormon extermination on October 27, 1838 (see <em>Teachings of Presidents of the Church: Joseph Smith</em> [2007], 349).&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:7" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 7 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:8">
<p>See Eliza R. Snow, in Edward W. Tullidge, <em>The Women of Mormondom</em> (1877), 145–46.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:8" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 8 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:9">
<p>“Joy to the World,” <em>Hymns</em>, no. 201.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:9" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 9 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:10">
<p>Missionaries do as the Lord has commanded: they preach, teach, and baptize in His name (see Matthew 28:19; Mark 16:15; Mormon 9:22; Doctrine and Covenants 68:8; 84:62; 112:28). In His Intercessory Prayer, Jesus proclaimed His relationship to the joy of His disciples. He said, “These things I speak in the world, that they might have <em>my</em> joy fulfilled in themselves” (John 17:13; emphasis added).&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:10" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 10 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:11">
<p>See Alma 13:22.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:11" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 11 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:12">
<p>Philippians 4:7.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:12" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 12 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:13">
<p>Doctrine and Covenants 121:7.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:13" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 13 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:14">
<p>See 2 Nephi 2:2.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:14" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 14 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:15">
<p>Hebrews 12:2.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:15" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 15 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:16">
<p>Doctrine and Covenants 6:36.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:16" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 16 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:17">
<p>Hebrews 12:2.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:17" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 17 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:18">
<p>See Mosiah 3:19. Note: the “natural man” is not only an enemy to God; he is also an enemy to his wife and children.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:18" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 18 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:19">
<p>See Alma 31:38.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:19" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 19 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:20">
<p>Hebrews 12:2.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:20" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 20 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:21">
<p>See Ether 12:27.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:21" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 21 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:22">
<p>See Hebrews 12:6.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:22" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 22 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:23">
<p>See Doctrine and Covenants 122:7.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:23" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 23 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:24">
<p>See Matthew 19:26; Mark 10:27.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:24" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 24 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:25">
<p>Alma 30:22. The Book of Mormon is filled with examples of men and women who experience joy and rejoicing <em>because they choose to follow Jesus Christ</em>. Any other choice, as in the case of Korihor, leads to eventual destruction.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:25" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 25 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:26">
<p><em>Calumny</em>, meaning a misrepresentation, is defined as a false and malicious statement designed to injure the reputation of someone or something. Calumny was happening in the days of Korihor, and it is happening now. The Prophet Joseph Smith spoke of the invincibility of the Church even in the face of calumny. He said: “The Standard of Truth has been erected; no unhallowed hand can stop the work from progressing; persecutions may rage, mobs may combine, armies may assemble, calumny may defame, but the truth of God will go forth boldly, nobly, and independent, till it has penetrated every continent, visited every clime, swept every country, and sounded in every ear, till the purposes of God shall be accomplished, and the Great Jehovah shall say the work is done” (<em>Teachings: Joseph Smith</em>, 444).&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:26" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 26 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:27">
<p>The world teaches that the purchase of <em>things</em> will bring joy. And if that doesn’t work, buy more! It also teaches that you can sin your way to joy. And if that doesn’t work, sin more! The promise is that at the end of every hedonistic rainbow is a pot of joy. Not true!&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:27" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 27 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:28">
<p>Not in this world or in the world to come.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:28" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 28 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:29">
<p>Righteous Saints “who have endured the crosses of the world … shall inherit the kingdom of God, … and their joy shall be full forever” (2 Nephi 9:18).&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:29" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 29 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:30">
<p>For examples, see 2 Nephi 27:30; Alma 27:16–18.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:30" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 30 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:31">
<p>See 1 Nephi 17:40.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:31" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 31 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:32">
<p>See Mosiah 4:2–3.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:32" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 32 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:33">
<p>Psalm 16:8, 11.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:33" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 33 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
<li id="fn:34">
<p>See Isaiah 35:10; 2 Nephi 8:3.&#160;<a class="footnote-backref" href="#fnref:34" rev="footnote" title="Jump back to footnote 34 in the text">&#8617;</a></p>
</li>
</ol>
</div>
        </section>
    </body>
</html>
